---
layout: post
title: First Blog Post
---

Being a data scientist is about learning from data to provide analysis and creating algorithms for predictive modeling. To do so they must study all things related to data. Their major knowledge areas include: the origin of data, structure of data, data manipulation, coding (Python, SAS, R, SQL), machine learning, mathematics, and statistics. Data scientists focus on building artificial intelligence tools to obtain analytics that provides insight on problems related to business decisions and automate company functions. 
Compared to statisticians, data scientists have less statistics knowledge, but more coding experience. The two occupations differ in the modeling process, size of data, types of problems studied, terminology used, and academic background. Data scientists compare many different modelling methods and implement the best one into an algorithm that learns from the data to provide predictions. Statisticians tend to improve on a simple model to best fit the data. Data science tends to deal with large amounts of data that are extracted from many different sources, while statistics have smaller scaled data collection methods. Data scientists also have more background in coding as they have traits of software engineers, while statisticians focus on statistical science. However, data scientists and statisticians overlap in some areas. Both fields require extracting information from data, knowledge of mathematics, coding experience, analyzing data, and creating visualizations. 
Personally, I believe it is important for me to be proficient in both as they complement one another. Statistics can be somewhat of a subset of data science, while data science is broad and encompasses more than the analysis that statistics handles. Currently, my knowledge leans towards statistics, however, I wish to become more knowledgeable on data science since coding is becoming an increasingly useful skill in our digital age. 

