---
layout: post
title: Second Blog Post
---

For some background, I had experience programming in Python prior to learning R and when I was learning to use R, I was also learning how to program in SAS. Since I learned Python first, I believe it was the most difficult for me to understand. Learning R after Python made it much easier programming language to understand. Although SAS is very different from R and Python, knowing the concepts behind coding definitely helped the transition. A few years later I taught myself a bit of MatLab for a mathematical programming class, but I do not consider it a program I am comfortable with using since I only used it for one semester. Python, SAS, and R are programs that I have consistently used throughout my college career or have used for personal projects and learned about on my own time. If I had to rank the programs it would be R, then SAS, followed by Python, and finally MatLab. This ranking mostly reflects how often I use the program and, subsequently, how familiar I am with them.  

The main element I prefer about R is the interface, especially the environment, where the objects are stored, and the built-in help tab. SAS also has an online help page that details all the different capabilities of the program, which is helpful, but it is different from most programming languages where it requires a data step or a proc step, followed by specific inputs. Python is more flexible in use than SAS, but the interface is not as nice as R since you cannot see the stored objects. From the little that I have used MatLab, it has a similar interface as R, but I am not as comfortable using it. Personally, I use R on a regular basis when I need to make a calculation and my computer is open. The console does not require me to save a file to run the code and I can still store objects for the session while R is open. 

I liked SAS because it has the online documentation guide that is accessible, and all statistical functions are built in. It is not like other programming languages, so it takes a bit to get used to. For example, as I previously mentioned, you need to know about the data versus proc lines, and then there are many different proc steps, each with their own arguments. However, if I were ever confused, I would go to the guide for help, so I was able to learn a lot on my own. I have recently learned that it also has nice graphing capabilities albeit the code can get quite complicated. Overall, SAS has many capabilities that I was not aware of, and I would like to gain more experience using it. When I first used Python, we had to build our own functions rather than relying on packages or built-in functions, so I felt that I was able to understand more of the background of how all of my codes worked. 

When I first learned R, it was relatively easy due to my prior knowledge on Python. With the bit background knowledge of Python I was able to pick up the similar programming concepts between the two programs, just with different syntax. For example, Python and R use # to make comments, while SAS uses *, and MatLab uses %. There was also the idea of storing variables in object or writing your own function, just to name a few parallels. There are also numerous online resources and help forums for R, which allows someone to learn on their own or to find help when they get stuck. I recall finding blogs that detailed which functions in R corresponded to specific statistical tests, which was helpful when I first began coding in R for statistics classes.
