---
layout: post
title: Post Project 2 Blog
---

[Link to github pages](https://maggief2.github.io/ST558Project2/)
[Link to github repo](https://github.com/maggief2/ST558Project2)

If I had to redo this project, there are not many things I would do differently. I made the repository, contacted my partner, and started working on the project early. After the initial interaction, my partner and I frequently communicated about our progress and provided feedback to one another. Since we began early, nothing felt particularly rushed and there was leeway for days with personal plans, such as the fourth of July. Some smaller changes that I would have liked to explore were the difference in “casual” and “registered” users instead of just the total number of bike rentals. I also think we could have written an if statement that would include the “workingday” variable in our step function if the day was not Saturday or Sunday. It did not appear to be a significant variable by itself, but I thought we should include it as a possible variable because we mentioned it in our data exploration. However, my partner preferred to remove the variable from the analysis.  

I think the most difficult part of this project was writing the automation. There were some failed attempts before we got it to work. The main issue was running the code with the “workingday” variable mentioned previously. We originally wanted to include all the variables we explored in the step function to select our second linear regression model. However, when running the automation for Saturday and Sunday, the “workingday” variable was causing an error because all observations fell into the category of not a working day. It took a bit of time to realize this because the error only told us that a factor must have two or more levels. Rather than writing an if statement to include the variable if the analysis was not for Saturday or Sunday, we removed the “workingday” variable entirely.

My biggest takeaways from this project are automation makes repetitive tasks easier and there is no single best way to make a model. When I ran into issues with the automation, I would search for other ways to write the code and came across many blogs detailing how to automate the code to automatically run every week and email the resulting analysis to yourself or others. Although it was not necessary for our project, this seems useful in a real world setting where new data is constantly collected. The second takeaway comes from the outputted analysis for each day of the week. When looking through them, we can see that they do not all share the same choice for best model. This may be due to the flexibility of some models compared to others, but it brought attention to the idea that there is no single best type of model. 
