---
layout: post
title: Post Project 1 Blog
---

[GitHub Pages Link](https://maggief2.github.io/ST558Project1/)

[Usual Repo Link](https://github.com/maggief2/ST558Project1)

In this project, I created a vignette for the National Hockey League (NHL) Application Programming Interfaces (API). The first section contains functions that will pull the data from the endpoints of the API. The second section focuses on an exploratory data analysis (EDA) of data pulled from a few of the endpoints. There were no particularly astounding findings, but I found it interesting that the defensemen of the Carolina Hurricanes had more points on average than the right wingers. This may be due to my limited knowledge on hockey and what the roles of each position are, but I was surprised that players whose position has defense in the name had many assists, which I think of as a more offense-oriented action. 

Overall, I found the setup for GitHub a bit confusing since I am unfamiliar with it and struggled a bit with writing the functions in a way that would make sense for someone using the code. There were also small issues along the way, such as addressing concerns with the lack of data for the Seattle Kraken team in the NHL stats API. For the NHL records API portion, I should mention that rather than making six functions for the six endpoints, I chose to challenge myself and make one function that could call any of the six endpoints. Coding-wise, I had some difficulties with the logic because the first two endpoints did not require names or ids, but the other four could specify the name or id. Then for the four that could specify the team, the first three used the franchiseId, while the last endpoint used the mostRecentTeamId. So, when I was making the getRecords function, I had to make sure the first two endpoints would output all the teams and disregard name, id, or detail specifications. The next four endpoints disregard the detail argument, but could take name or id, but thre was an issue with using id. The third, fourth, and fifth, endpoint “id” specified the franchiseId and for the sixth endpoint “id” specified the mostRecentTeamId. The name for the team also had to correspond to either the franchiseId or mostRecentTeamId depending on the endpoint. I thought about trying to make the two match, but it is difficult to choose if the franchiseId or the mostRecentTeamId would be the overarching “id” for the teams. So, I made it so if both the team name and id were given, the team name would override the id input. The sixth endpoint also had an additional problem which was the data that we wanted were contained in html type data. In the end I added the detail argument to the function to specify if we want the data on the captains, coaches, general managers, or retired numbers. Although there were many difficulties, the seeing the final code run smoothly and output what I envisioned is very satisfying. 

For a similar project in the future, I would like to put more effort into researching the background on the topic. For example, I am still not sure what exactly a shutout is for goalies, so I was not sure how important it was in determining their performance. My focus for the EDA was the bigger picture for the hockey teams, but my lack of knowledge caused me a lot of confusion when thinking about what was important. For example, I tried to think about what the coaches or owners would find the most useful when looking at the data, which was why most of the EDA was on the active skaters and goalies on the teams. My thoughts were to compare the different skaters and goalies across the many teams to see what would make the players perform better, but due to my lack of knowledge on hockey I felt that the results were lackluster. Overall, I learned a lot during the process of completing the project.
