---
layout: post
title: Reflection Blog
---

There are no major changes in my thoughts about what I think a data scientist is and what they do, but I now have a better understanding of this field through the hands-on experience from this course. Many of the tasks were focused on the foundations of data science, which helped me notice the similarities between data science and what I have learned in coding classes as a statistics major. However, I feel like there is a larger skillset needed to tackle more complex issues, but this would require more experience, which I currently lack. Regardless, I am still considering data science as a career because I enjoy coding and solving problems. If I had learned about it sooner, I would be better prepared, but I will continue to work towards filling this gap of knowledge as I move forward. 

So far, I think R is great for data science because it is a coding language that allows us to check the structure of the data, perform data manipulation, and run machine learning algorithms or statistical models. There is more to R that I would like to learn, such as how to scrape the web for data, so I will continue to use it going forward. I feel like being able to extract data on our own is an important skill for data scientists. Ideally, my future occupation would involve R, however if it does not, I will likely use it for personal projects. Concepts that I have learned using R, will also allow for an easier transfer of knowledge if I need to use other data science programs such as SQL, C++, or Java in the future.

One practice I have already started doing is using R Markdown instead of R script. I previously used R script files more, but I like how R Markdown has a separation between code chunks and text, as well as its document forming capabilities. After learning R Markdown, I used it for another class since there is a coding portion for the homework, and I wanted to display the code and output. I also would like to continue exploring R Shiny because creating an interactive app is rewarding and I believe it can bring more information to laypeople. I also plan to document my future work using GitHub because it keeps all my documents in one place and allows me to share my work with a broader audience.
